hi guys I'm here today to share the
answer to the number one question I get
asked on the blog which is how do you
make your homemade chalk paint recipe I
can't wait to show you it's so easy and
once you see you're gonna want to paint
anything that'll stand still I've been
using plaster of Paris in my recipe for
years I've used it on everything from
furniture makeovers to candlesticks to
picture frames plastic wood anything
that will stand still today I'm starting
with about a half a cup of latex paint
it's just leftover home paint from my
remodel and I'm going to mix it with
plaster of Paris for half a cup I use
about one to two scoops of plaster and
just mix it really thoroughly you want
to get all of the mixture incorporate it
into your paint and do your best to get
rid of the lumps when you just mix in
the plaster of Paris your paint is going
to become thick and gloppy which is what
you don't want so you're going to add a
little bit of water and by a little I
just mean a few tablespoons the best
thing about this recipe is it's just
like a recipe you're gonna make it your
own if you mess up and put too much
water in you can correct it by adding
more plaster of Paris if you had too
much plaster of Paris you can correct it
by adding some more water or add more
paint until you get back to the
consistency you need and that's what
you're going to learn most of the
recipes on the internet tell you to have
about three parts paint one part plaster
of Paris which is really close but where
you're going to get tripped up is you
have to remember that all paints are
different and the beauty of making your
own paint like this is you can use all
the paint you have laying around your
house your latex paint this leftover
from a painting job you did your acrylic
page just any of that stuff but they're
going
I'll have a different consistency to
start with which means you're going to
need to add different amounts of plaster
of Paris in water so this is just to
show you the consistency that you're
going to want to get so you can learn
how to duplicate it at home you really
just want to go back to practically the
original paint consistency I would say
this is still a little bit sick and this
paint will thicken a little bit as you
work with it so you want to start off
with it a little bit looser than you
might think just stir it up
this is about right
perfect coverage it's that simple so
grab some plaster of Paris some paint
you have around your house and see what
you can't come up with I promise you
can't break it it's so easy and I can't
wait for you to try it now that you see
how easy this recipe is to whip up head
over to Hunton host.net
to see more tips and tricks on how to
use your brand new recipe